hello everyone Kyle here again with
another update so I was hoping to give
you a follow-up on last times update the
constructs and testicles in tobacco
however that hasn't fully worked out and
we're still gonna process with debugging
that one thing you learn about research
this has to be a patient in perseverance
in the face of frustrating results so
instead I figured I would talk to you a
little bit about this regeneration
protocol that we have which i think is
really cool and exciting to share with
you guys so just as a bit of background
most likely you've heard of these things
called stem cells this is idea where you
have cells that can turn into any other
type of the cell and there's a lot of
really exciting potential to use these
in medicine so like if you take a stem
cell put it into a patient just
paralyzed could you potentially like
regrow the neurons on to Georgia or
could you take a stem cells and like
regrow heart and instead of having to
have you know open doors you can then
just have regrow your roaming organs for
transportation
well the same sort of principle applies
in plants there are cases where we want
to take a pledge stem so then we grow an
entire plant and stuff what I'll get to
Walker you guys today and plants the way
we do that is really changing to
different auxins and cytokinins oxidants
involved in lots of things cytokine in
but a while ago that value researchers
figured out that we can
essentially add both of them to a media
and get plant stem cells and then remove
the oxygen and you kind of get shoots
and then remove the cytokine and add
back a little bit of oxidant and then
you'll give some groups just what I'll
walk you here and show you yeah so here
we have some Arab adopts us routes so he
chose routes as the X plan so the X
plant is a little piece of the fully
mature plant that you take off and
you're then trying to turn them into
stem cells so you can see these roots
here so it's enough the reason that
substrate is an artifact of me putting
them on the media so kind of a nice
straight line I guess I'm just a little
worried over to those people then after
about two weeks or so those cells in the
roots will kind of turn into plant stem
cells and in the case of flat biology we
call these stem cells cows tissue and
that's what you can kind of see here I
will try to you know take better
pictures and kind of link them somewhere
so you can see but what you can sort of
see is that no longer it looks like a
root at all you've got this kind of mass
of yellowish whitish colored cells and
these are the plant stem cells which we
can then do all sorts of interesting
things to and then regenerate back out
into a plants and so again this is the
media that has a mix of both cytokinins
a toxins and that's how at least in the
case of obnoxious we're getting that
used to regenerate or turn into stem
cells then you take those little pieces
of callus and put them on a media that
has cytokine in and no oxen
and that's how we get our about abscess
leaves so this guy doesn't look very
happy that's mainly because if you look
at this plate he doesn't have a whole
lot of room to grow I know about you I
was stuck in a small little like
container like this I thought I wouldn't
be very happy either but what this does
show you our leaves that have grown out
so this is basically another two weeks
or so after moving the callus tissue
onto this media you get these leaf
structure and differentiating which i
think is is really cool you then take it
off of that media and put it on a media
that has some a little bit of awesome on
it and what you can see here this one is
going to be really bad I'll definitely
take a better picture this but what you
can see here are these root tight
structures here and there's another one
over here somewhere yeah and then the
other one kind of right here you can go
to see again sorry there's pictures on
all that these aren't all that great but
I'll take pictures and kind of point out
different structures and if you leave
them on there a little longer you
actually can get a little flower to
develop as well so if we take a look at
this one here these little structures
here are actually little flowers which
kind of blows my mind I don't like very
exciting cool yeah so that is
essentially what we do with stem cells
and plant biology and basically what I
plan to do with these are is basically
at that callow stage he's he's kind of
yellow whitish Maseo cells that's the
point which we will insert our genes of
interest but
row select out the clump of cells that
were transformed and then regrow whole
plants back out of those so we're in the
process right now of adding that
transformation protocol on top of this
plant regeneration protocol so hopefully
and other monks are still available to
then kind of give you another update
telling you that we've actually done
that to be very that we've done that as
well so I'm kind of excited to show that
I'm cool so that is all I have for today
thanks for letting me share this with
you I like I said a bit of a black piles
in here I didn't really enjoy talking
about these things so thanks boy